:
w to Setup NFS (Network File System)
NFS (Network File System) is basically developed for sharing of files and folders between
Linux/Unix systems by Sun Microsystems in 1980. It allows you to mount your local file
systems over a network and remote hosts to interact with them as they are mounted locally on
the same system. With the help of NFS, we can set up file sharing between Unix to Linux
systems and Linux to Unix systems.
Benefits of NFS
1. NFS allows local access to remote files.
2. It uses standard client/server architecture for file sharing between all *nix based
machines.
3. With NFS it is not necessary that both machines run on the same OS.
4. With the help of NFS we can configure centralized storage solutions.
5. Users get their data irrespective of physical location.
6. No manual refresh needed for new files.
7. Can be secured with Firewalls.
NFS Services
Its a System V-launched service. The NFS server package includes three facilities, included in
the portmap and nfs-utils packages.
1. portmap : It maps calls made from other machines to the correct RPC service (not
required with NFSv4).
2. nfs: It translates remote file sharing requests into requests on the local file system.
3. rpc.mountd: This service is responsible for mounting and unmounting of file systems.
4. NFS Port Number : 2049
5. RPC and PORTMAP : 111
6. Package Name : nfs-utils
Ravendra 9675006960
Important Files for NFS Configuration
1. /etc/exports : Its a main configuration file of NFS, all exported files and directories are
defined in this file at the NFS Server end.
2. /etc/sysconfig/nfs : Configuration file of NFS to control on which port rpc and other
services are listening.
3. /var/log/messages : To check logs regarding nfs.
Setup and Configure NFS Mounts on Linux
To setup NFS mounts, we’ll be needing at least two Linux/Unix machines. Here in this tutorial,
I’ll be using two servers.
1. NFS Server: nfsserver.example.com with IP-192.168.1.10
2. NFS Client : nfsclient.example.com with IP-192.168.1.50
NFS Options
Some other options we can use in “/etc/exports” file for file sharing is as follows.
1. ro: With the help of this option we can provide read only access to the shared files
i.e client will only be able to read.
2. rw: This option allows the client server to both read and write access within the
shared directory.
3. sync: Sync confirms requests to the shared directory only once the changes have
been committed.
4. no_subtree_check: This option prevents the subtree checking. When a shared
directory is the subdirectory of a larger file system, nfs performs scans of every
directory above it, in order to verify its permissions and details. Disabling the
subtree check may increase the reliability of NFS, but reduce security.
5. no_root_squash: This phrase allows root to connect to the designated directory.
Ravendra 9675006960
Important commands for NFS
1. showmount -e : Shows the available shares on your local machine
2. showmount -e <server-ip or hostname>: Lists the available shares at the remote
server
3. showmount -d : Lists all the sub directories
4. exportfs -v : Displays a list of shares files and options on a server
5. exportfs -a : Exports all shares listed in /etc/exports, or given name
6. exportfs -u : Unexports all shares listed in /etc/exports, or given name
7. exportfs -r : Refresh the server’s list after modifying /etc/exports
